# Culture Industry

## Background

*Culture Industry*[^1] is a speculative "deep fake" generation system aimed at automating my former profession of "Curator of Lectures" at Town Hall Seattle. [Town Hall Seattle](https://townhallseattle.org) is a multidisciplinary performance venue in Seattle that hosts more than 200 lecture programs from touring nonfiction authors every year on a wide variety of topics loosely grouped into themes of "civics", "science", and "arts & culture". From 2015-2020 I served as the curator of this series: booking hosting hundreds of authors on the Seattle stop of their national media tour. 

My curatorial flexibility was constrained by low production budgets and the demand for a high volume of diverse topics and perspectives, so in practice our calendar was dictated primarily by the whims of the publishing industry who funded the touring activities of our speakers. We presented a potpourri of sometimes brilliant but often hum-drum middlebrow public intellectuals familiar from NPR segments. The resulting diet of ideas opened a fascinating but somewhat feverish window into American consciousness during that turbulent period. The organization, like many arts organizations in the mid-late 2010s, was roiled by (extremely justified) critiques of its gender and racial bias, resulting in an internal "DEI" (Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion) process and a slow transformation of a historically dominant white and male speaker lineup. 

All of this presents a rich and quite accessible[^2] dataset of text, images, sound and video from an institution whose primary aim was to host the cream of contemporary cultural production onstage in Seattle. The content of the dataset is quite diverse but the form is often hilariously consistent: with famous tics in "presenter" language, a consistent "business casual" aesthetic[^3] and a morphing set of hot topics (including AI itself!) that reflect the intellectual fashions of each new season of books. Neural-network based approaches to parsing and generating novel entries in this idiom could serve as both satire and authentic insight into what "we" were concerned with in that window of time. Notably, as curator and the primary consumer of that dataset in its original form (I attended an order of magnitude more of these events than any other person in Seattle, I'm sure), there is a sense in which this putatively diverse, pluralistic set of words, images and ideas represents an embarrassingly idiosyncratic slice of my own cultural context.

Additionally, the process of developing this system explores what it means to automate a form of production which, superficially, belongs to the exact category of soft, affective cultural labor that resists automation: curation. In practice, I found my duties in the role to be very repetitive or even algorithmic, and often fantasized about developing a system to generate the perfunctory curatorial decisions and effusive form e-mails that constituted the majority of my work. This system could exceed that by automating the entire process of generating a lecture by creating all the elements—including an artificial speaker—at a volume beyond human capacity to even consume. Indeed, the median Town Hall Seattle event is the closest thing I can think of as a "widget" of the cultural economy. Exposing the high-status role of famous public intellectual (many Town Hall speakers fit this description) to the possibility of infinite AI reproduction presents difficult questions of who and what can or should be automated. 

In the spirit of this assignment's prompt of "setting character and tech", it's also important to note that the constant that anchors this project is a very real and particular *setting*. Town Hall Seattle is a solid, neoclassical former church on First Hill in Seattle with reassuring, Greek-revival columns and a marvelously elegant Great Hall framed by stained glass windows. The venue for this work could be the literal institution itself or a digital replica or environment similarly informed. The consistency of the space frames the breadth of ideas spoken within. It is a quaint, and perhaps significantly impossible, evocation of a Habermasian "Public Sphere" that is evoked in the organization's hokey name—"Town Hall". Character and Technology become variables to interpolate within this setting, exploring what we may have believed in such a space and why. 

## Technical Overview

A fully "automated" version of a Town Hall Seattle event is a broad and technically challenging task that touches on many cutting edge techniques in generative art with machine learning. Potential approaches include:

- A system for generating unique "speakers" with generated biographies, headshots, and voices. 
- A system for generating the text and images of a presentation. A fine-tuned NLP model trained on the corpus of talks is a straightforward initial idea, but finding a way to wrestle these into the longform semi-coherence of a Town Hall event with the distinctiveness of a *specific* textual voice is a challenge. An additional creative challenge is tying this into a system to generate the ubiquitous powerpoint slides using an ImageGan or a more traditional generative art process that retains some relationship to the language being used.
- Systems for generating the ephemera of an event: the marketing copy and promotional images, audience Q&A, cafe menus, etc.
- A final form for human audiences to consume the generated work: such as text-to-speech based "podcast recordings" of the talks, an installation piece displaying the generated work, or even an interactive "live" event realized in some sort of animation or game-engine environment like Unity to allow three dimensional access to the look and feel of an event. I am also interested in using this system to generate scripts and visual elements for performances that would be realized by actors, possibly in Town Hall itself!  

[^1]: This working title is a cheeky allusion to Adorno & Horkheimer's famous theoretical essay in their *Dialectic of Enlightenment* (1947). It was a term I used to poke fun at the assembly line style of cultural production in my work at Town Hall Seattle.  
[^2]: Town Hall hosts a great archive of event listings, audio and video recordings, and transcripts, which is even well-tagged by topic! 
[^3]: Though not nearly as bad as TED talks, you can get a sense of this aesthetic from the dozens of satires of the TED style, [like this delightful one from the CBC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_ZBKX-6Gz6A). 